---
date: 2019-09-02
---

---
## A quick re-cap
We first met on 18 June to kick off the work on the career framework. We researched [other career frameworks](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/engineering-career-path/issues/1) and asked for feedback.  In the following 4 weeks, we met twice more. We defined in more detail the outcomes we wanted from a career framework, the questions we couldn't answer ourselves, possible risks and ways to mitigate them. We also agreed definitions of done. You can see [the notes](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VujvGVn6nSzfUB76OcMClPK74WwTpVKeBAK8yMKlon4/edit#gid=0) on Google Sheets (requires MoJ D+T Google Account).

On 7 August, we met in South Collanade and decided some key things:

* The career framework will align to the essential and desirable skills described on DDaT [Software developer roles: skill levels](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/software-developer-roles-skill-levels/software-developer-roles-skill-levels)
* DDaT software developer essential and desirable skills are technical only. We all agree that developers need non-technical skills, so these too will be included in the framework.
* DDaT splits roles into technical and management roles from senior upwards. There is little difference when you look at the skill levels. We intend to ignore the management/technical split. We expect all developers to develop non-technical skills, getting better at this as you become more senior.
* We will take inspiration mainly from the frameworks by [Monzo](https://progression.monzo.com/) and [the FT](https://engineering-progression.ft.com/)
* The level definitions in DDaT are not helpful when we start to fill in the detail. We intend to use terms like "mastery" or "expert" at each role level, as per Monzo's example. We like their positive language.
* We will use Google Sheets to sketch out a high level structure of the career framework
* We will 

On August 13, we agreed momentum was lacking, so decided to meet every Tuesday afternoon for 3 hours. We've made good progress on the [high level structure of the career framework](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VujvGVn6nSzfUB76OcMClPK74WwTpVKeBAK8yMKlon4/edit#gid=819921489).

On August 27, we agreed roles and responsibilities we have in the creation of the framework, talked about a comms plan and completed the first pass of the high level structure. We also agreed the following milestones:

* High level structure (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Apprentice Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Junior Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Senior Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Lead Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)
* Content for Principal Developers (reviewed + one round feedback)

## Ongoing communication with developers
We'll write up notes every time we have something to say. If you'd like to feedback, please use one of the [feedback channels](/#support). 
